# April 1st, 2018

## Discussion

After attempting to simplify the OptimizingController (really the FrozenOptimizingController), it has become clear that it works because of a relatively fine grained prediction of the dynamics of the joint (35+ iterations for about 0.3 seconds). This makes this method relatively impractical for conversion to neurons, where either the loop would need to be unrolled or some sort of continually updating loop would need to be implemented (a possibility).

## Operations

### State Estimation

	1. Read in sensors
	2. Derivative to get velocity
	3. Pressures to get accel? (but accel just controlled with torque)

### Forward Torque Guess

	1. Using estimated parameters and a torque guess, project the end location
	2. Compare to desired location (from pattern generation, etc)
	3. Increase torque to increase position or vice versa, repeat from step 1 until position error is small

Woo! I have the controller torque.

### Convert to control pressures

Given a desired torque, implement the conversion to pressures. This isn't very simple right now.

TODO(buckbaskin): try and simplify the conversion between torque and pressures

### Extra steps for observer

Look at the state change between the current state (short neuron time constant) and lagging state (large time constant) and estimate the actual values of the model parameters (damping and load). Slowly update the internal values for a better predictor.

I still don't have a good method to do this in code, so building a simple method in neurons will either magically solve this problem (less likely) or not work (more likely).

The current idea is to implement some sort of gradient method.

TODO(buckbaskin): implement the gradient adjustment method. I don't know how to implement a gradient method in neurons, but that's a future problem.