# March 23, 2018

## Discussion

### Estimation Effects: Mass

The model uses a mass of the link to provide an estimate of the inertia of linkage. This parameter also varies a stable conservative force in a smaller quantity.

Underestimating the link mass by 25% has little effect. (0.004 rad max error vs. 0.003 for the correct mass).

Overestimating mass by 25% is disastrous for the stability. (0.246 rad max error).

See Link Mass image 2.

Underestimating mass can get very extreme before significantly bad performance is observed (possibly due to damping being estimated). See Link Mass image 4, down to 0.01 kg link mass has error up to 0.022 rad (1.25 degrees).

Link Mass image 5 shows the failure at 0.001 kg. 0.005 kg is close. This would suggest that a mass estimate above 5-10 grams is stable and can estimate upwards for the current system.

## Estimation Effects: Damping

There is an internal damping variable in the simulation that characterizes how much damping effects from the actuator material disappate energy based on velocity/change in length.

Overestimating the damping parameter by 100% or more causes oscillation instability. Undershooting seems to maintain good tracking. See Damping2.

Overshooting between 50% and 75% leads to large oscillations that "break" the controller. As of Damping3, I found no lower bound on how low the estimation can go before breaking the controller.

As currently implemented, the controller is stable with 0 estimated damping on a system with a small quantity of internal damping.git s

## Estimation Effects: Conservative Loads

The primary conservative load is the mass of the robot that is supported by the link. This force is an instability. For any weight, if the link is exactly vertical, the force is supported through the structure. Deviations from that point must be supported by muscle.

Stability with a higher load is determined by how fast air can enter or exit the actuator. If the value is too slow, the actuator gets behind on changing pressures and overshoots the intended value because of the instability.

Overestimating Robot Mass seems to lead to increased "stability" and decreased tracking at maximum amplitude. Based on this, it appears that the algorithm overcompensates for potential extreme swings and instead reduces maximum amplitude when it overestimates to compensate for the extra mass. This works up to a point (est. 1 kg for a 0.1 kg load) but then fails quickly aftewards.

The mass appears to be able to be estimated from 0 because it is still stable and tracking at lower amplitude. See Load6.