# March 26, 2018

## Discussion

At its current state, the difference in pressure limitations can cause a 
bifurcation in the prediction of the simple and actual model.

Changing the pressure model causes the two to behave the same. I got the simple model to replication the more complex one, so now it's down to estimating 3
parameters: inertia (M), damping (C) and conservative load (N).

M(theta) \theta_ddot + C(\theta, \theta_dot) + N(\theta) = Torque(extp, flxp)

\theta_ddot = (Torque - C * \theta_dot - N * R_g * math.sin(theta)) / M

For a known torque: Trying to detemine each of the parameters:
For any given state transition:

Assume that each of the three parameters is close to correct. In turn, update 
the parameters to correct the observed errors. Ex. for damping/C:

\theta_ddot = (Torque - C * \theta_dot - N * R_g * math.sin(theta)) / M

\theta_ddot = Torque / M - C * (\theta_dot / M) - N * ( R_g * math.sin(theta) / M)

d \theta_ddot / d C = - \theta_dot / M

For damping, it was observed that undershooting the damping estimate is ok, but
overshooting can eventually cause controller instability. This means that it is
ok to slowly increase the estimated damping, but any estimated decrease should
be taken in full.

To estimate the correct value for damping, assuming the other parameters are
close to correct in a Taylor series style:

\theta_ddot = (Torque - C * \theta_dot - N * R_g * math.sin(theta)) / M

\theta_ddot_actual + \ddot_err = (Torque - (C_act + C_err) * \theta_dot - N * R_g * math.sin(theta)) / M

\ddot_err = -C_err * (\theta_dot / M)

C_err = -\ddot_err * (M / \theta_dot)

```
if C_err > 0:
    C_err *= 0.5

C_est = C_est_old + C_err
```

