# March 19, 2017
## Dicussion

## New control concepts to think about

### Proportional

Trajectory has an acceleration term as well (desired)

Add proportional error term to acceleration

### Computed Torque

Controller has a mass/damper/conservative force model of the system.
Originally assume it has perfect values.
In the future assume it has close values that aren't necessarily correct.

The acceleration trajectory is super helpful here.
Using the internal mass/damper/conservative force model,
set the torque to the required torque to follow the trajectory.
Add in the proportional error terms on top of this.

Linear stability analysis of this with and without perfect information

When estimating these parameters, show stability limits of improperly estimating mass, etc.

Parameter estimation is either KF or neuron-based. Control parameters and such are neuron?

### Forward looking torque

If/when the controller is updating "slowly", look at the expected time interval 
until the next control update. Using a mass model, do some sort of educated guess
and check to estimate the right control for the entire interval. Possibly least 
squares on the desired state (end goal is positional control). Then the controller
rolls forward that much time and then updates its output again. This should avoid
overshoot from huge gains on a slow updating proportional controller where a big
error causes huge torque, which overshoots before the controller realizes it. 

It might not even be least squares, it can just be how well does the state at the
next controller update match the desired trajectory (might miss intermediate 
geometry though). This can have weighted (gains?) errors for position, velocity 
or acceleration at that point.

This sounds like polynomial fitting or something like that, which gets back to
least squares.

### Rest

All of this complicates (but hopefully improves) the stability in the face of 
poorly estimated parameters (in the mass model, actuator dynamics, etc.).

Robustness is the width of the stable area around the actual values.