# March 5, 2017
## Dicussion

Delays, finite resolution in the control system cause instability in
proportional, damping

In simulation, estimate hz of controller to push gains down (upper limit)
Then lower limit on gains from acceptable trajectory tracking] (lower limit)
This provides robustness bound from simulated system

Stiffness for small motion, larger motion

"Observer" sagging, increase stiffness or otherwise, higher level controller
adjust between bounds based on actual performance

Weight on robot, expect controller to increase stiffness
Weight off robot, reduce stiffness to reduce antagonistic contraction, be more
energy efficient

Most efficient thing is bang-bang control, activate one then the other without
fighting self. Based on mass model, control selection

Autonomous robot needs to update control based on environment
Robot loosens up over time, starting from high stiffness, until performance
degrades too much, then increase stiffness again

Learn what forces should be, so you can loosen up and only apply the necessary
forces

Static hardware test: let it stand, lower stiffness until it sags, then stiffen
up slightly. Then add weight (still static robot) and watch it adjust again

Damping term, limb mass, are effects to consider in design of the higher level
big-angle controller

Other small motion analysis: filling and emptying loss
can you estimate flow loss over a trajectory

based on volume change of the muscle, pressure, should be able to approximate
airflow, flow loss, flow rate loss turns into a damping turn with a friction
model

meaningful and useful: use position to change pressure in the tubes, so that
requires acceleration and viscous damping to be estimated

look for time dependent data, estimate actuator damping from that. Lower bound
proves stability in small angle case.

2 cases for damping: static, no volume change, damping from tube. dynamic,
filling, lots of volume change on a big swing. Maybe simplify the damping to one
number that combines both,
Start from conservative lower bound when doing initial control, maybe move later

Observer looks at co-contraction (energy use) vs. overshoot, undershoot

Changing stiffness is changing damping ratio, involves stiffness, damping,
inertia

## TODOs

- Level curve for stiffness -> pick stiffness -> select angle from there
- Build a dynamic model, 2 different Festos, negative feedback based on
pressure/position curves
- Incorporate a discrete pressure update, update frequency of the controllers.
Limits stability at high stiffness
- Then do lagging mass models that show how low stiffness can get
- Control input, desired position, sin wave of frequency, Bode plot, analyze
- Numerically analyze nonlinear system, doing the same stuff as for a linear
system

- Future: update stiffness in a 3 joint model in simulation adding or
removing weights

Poster Title: How low can you go?

Ask Alex about time data
Nervous systemy stuff is the antagonistic actuators, how do you
efficiently use them? With a reasonable low gain?

Questions for the future:

- Damping ratio? How goes changing the stiffness affect that? For a high
estimate of damping? For a low estimate? Does the stiffness bound also
need to have a damping ratio bound?
