# March 4, 2018

## Dicussion

For a given theta des and set torque, calculate pressure. This is the controller
model (for small changes in angle).

### Stability
Then this gives a model, for a given pressure of how actual torque changes with
position. Linearize this around the desired point.
Measure deviation from linearization out to 10%, 30 deg?

Either numerical or symbolic derivative

Calculate linearization for n points spaced by slightly less than the minimum
joint angle to get 10% deviation. Plot this for theta = 0 just to make sure the
math looks right

Matrix is
[[0 1];
[-df/dtheta -df/dthetadot]];
In matlab land

Check for stability
PD is stable for a sufficiently fast updating controller

### Robustness
What is robustness of a controller/system?
In control theory, robust control is an approach to controller design that
explicitly deals with uncertainty. ... Robust methods aim to achieve robust
performance and/or stability in the presence of bounded modeling errors.

Where does the inertia model come in for this? Gain divide by rotational inertia
Right now, starting from “near” my goal pose (enough to be close enough to
linear), assuming joints are at a static pressure and the inertial effects are
small

Back out to torque as a function of computed pressure and a new angle. Linearize
that

### Damping
Damping effects of the actuators? That should make proportional stable. This
might only come from keeping track of S, damping comes from different
flexion/extension properties?

~~2nd order Taylor approximation, Numeric derivative methods (see 250)~~

Estimate damping as fitting a damped spring to the system instead of a linear
spring

~~Then you get a velocity term.~~ Nope

From talking it out

- Yep. If I can show it’s linear-ish within 10% for some range and repeat that,
then for the static case I’ve solved part 1
- The next part is doing it for a dynamic system that isn’t close to its
desired point, so it needs to do ballistic motion/unbalanced motion
- So it involves having a mass model that’s perfect (for now) and feed
forward control n things from Robotics 1
- When I can do “stability” for that I’m gonna try to talk with Nick to
figure out what robust means and where to start with that
